[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: My
name is Gregg Braden.
I'd like to welcome you to
this very special presentation
of "Missing Links," the deep
truth of our origin, history,
destiny, and fate.
And the last episode,
we discovered
that the scientific
evidence for civilizations
simply don't fit the traditional
timeline for our past.
From Caral, Peru,
and the Great Sphinx
in Egypt to Turkey's
Gobekli Tepe
now dated into the
last ice age, we
saw examples of evidence that
was once discounted by science,
but now it's
scientifically accepted.
Well, in this episode, I'm
inviting you on a journey.
And it's a journey
that goes beyond what's
accepted by conventional
science today,
the evidence that turns
history upside down.
And, in some
respects, it's going
to sound like science fiction.
The thing is, while these
discoveries may sound
like fiction, they're not.
They're real.
And because they are real,
we have to make room for them
in the story of our past.
New dating techniques are
now revealing brand new clues
about the mystery of our past.
And they're also revealing
a new and entirely new class
of artifacts that we've
never seen before.
They're called OOP Arts,
which stands for Out
Of Place Artifacts.
So I want to talk to you
about Out Of Place Artifacts.
What are they?
What do they mean?
And what do they say
to us about our past?
The idea is that when we look
into the Earth, the deeper we
go into the Earth's crust, the
older the rock layers become.
It makes perfect sense.
So the newer layers
are on top the.
Older layers are at the bottom.
And the reason that
this is important
is because scientists use
this principle to help
determine the age of artifacts.
When they find an artifact
deep in the Earth,
in a layer of coal, for
example, the thinking
is that the artifact had to
be in place when that coal was
being developed, and
in the case of coal,
that means hundreds of
thousands of years ago.
So this is important.
It was in 1700s and the 1800s
when technology brought us
to the point where we could
actually drill into the Earth.
And it was through the drill
bits that were coming up
in the coal seams of the
Carolinas and Virginia
here in America and in
Russia and other parts
of the world-- all of
a sudden in these coal
seams the researchers began
finding and the engineers
began finding artifacts that
simply should not be existing
in those coal seams.
They're called Out
Of Place Artifacts
because they don't fit the
traditional timeline for what
should have been happening
in that layer of Earth
at the time.
So I'm just going to share
with you a sampling of these,
because we could do an entire
program based only on Out
Of Place Artifacts.
But the point is they
begin to tell us a story.
So let's look at some of the
confirmed examples of Out
Of Place Artifacts.
And again, this is only
a sampling of discoveries
that are being made.
The first one I want
to talk about it to me
is one of the most profound.
It's called the
Antikythera machine.
It was actually discovered by
divers off the shore of Crete
in 1901.
1901, the divers were looking
for other kinds of artifacts,
and they found this encrusted
conglomerate of something
they had never seen before.
Now, bear in mind this is 1901.
This is the turn of centuries
ago-- not last century,
but the century before.
And when they
brought this artifact
to the surface, what they
saw encrusted in the shells
and in the sediment
that was there
were a series of gears,
very sophisticated gears,
in a way that had
never been seen before.
Well, they took this
artifact, they preserved it.
They couldn't explain it.
And it wasn't until X-rays
became a little bit more
sophisticated that
the exhale rays were
able to actually
penetrate the sediment
and revealed inside
something even more profound,
the really sophisticated
variable gears
that interlock with one
another in a way that had never
been seen in the world before.
The interesting thing
is that the artifact
was dated to about 80 BCE,
Before Common Era, which
means it's over 2000 years old.
So the question is,
over 2000 years ago,
number one, who
had the technology
to make this kind of gear?
Number two, who had the
technology to take these gears
and apply them in the machine
that is now being suspected
as an astronomical
device to help calculate
the movements of
stars and planets
in the heavens in
the way that we did
see until later in
the 20th century?
So this is an example of
an Out Of Place Artifact.
But there are others.
Now, I'm going to go from some
of the most recent, backward
in geologic time, just to give
you a sense of what scientists
are dealing with.
Because remember,
science is telling us
through that pyramid
of thinking that we
saw in an earlier
episode that civilization
is only 5,000 years old.
That's the problem when we
start finding things like this.
What you're looking at
on your screen right now
is a clay human figure that
was found in Nampa, Idaho.
It was discovered
by drilling a well.
It was a water
well 300 feet deep.
And that 300 feet placed the
drill into the geologic strata
that we call the Pleistocene.
So this is the Pleistocene Age.
That is about 1.2 million
years before present.
So just for
reference, humans only
appeared on Earth about
200,000 years ago,
is what we're finding.
So the question is, what is
this clay figurine, a little bit
larger than the size
of an American dime,
you're seeing for scale
on the screen-- what
is that figurine doing in
Pleistocene strata that's
now being dated at
1.2 million years?
Scientists can't answer that.
That is why it is an
Out Of Place Artifact.
Now we're going to go
back a little further,
and this is a particularly
fascinating artifact for me.
This was found in northern
Russia in Lebinsk.
And if you look
closely, what you're
seeing in this piece of rock is
what looks to be a microchip.
It's a microchip
that should not be
where it is because this rock
comes from an even older period
in geologic history.
It comes from the
Permian period.
That's around 225 to 250
million years before present.
This cannot be hoaxed, because
this chip is actually embedded
in the strata, and the strata
was made 225 to 250 million
years ago.
How does this happen?
What is it telling
us about our past?
This is one of the
great mysteries
that researchers are
struggling with right now.
But it goes even further.
I live in northern
New Mexico, and it
was in New Mexico in 1987 that
a researcher found what you're
seeing on the screen
right now, and it
is just what it looks like it.
Is a human footprint.
And it's not just a piece
of a human footprint.
This is a fully formed, very
well developed human footprint.
The problem is this footprint
is in Permian strata, a time
from the Permian period, that's
about 290 million years before
present.
Again, just for
reference, humans first
appeared only 200,000 years ago.
So what is a fully formed
human footprint doing in strata
that's 290 million years old?
In the Ordovician period,
a group of scientists
discovered what you're
seeing right now,
and it is just
what it looks like.
This is an iron hammer
on a wooden shaft that
was found in a town in Texas.
It's called London, Texas.
It was found in 1934.
And this cannot be hoaxed.
The shaft is actually
embedded into the strata.
And the wood in the
shaft has been there
so long it's actually
becoming carbonized into coal.
So the shaft of this hammer
is turning into coal.
How did this hammer get into
400-million-year-old strata?
But it doesn't stop there.
And I wanted to
share this with you
before we bring this all
together and then take it
to the next step.
In South Africa, one of
the great mysteries--
it was found years ago--
was an entire field
of spheres that are
made of a metal that
is not native to our
planet as we know it today.
It's been combined, an
alloy, in a way that
does not happen naturally.
But the thing is, the
spheres are all machined.
That they have machined
grooves around them.
Some of them are very large.
They're feet in diameter.
Some of them are only a
few centimeters or inches
in diameter.
You're seeing some on
the screen right now.
But here's the thing.
These mysterious
spheres in South Africa
are now being dated-- look
at this-- 570 million years
before present.
Now, I just want to
give you some context.
What you're seeing is
a geologic map of time.
You're seeing the most
recent at the top,
and the oldest strata,
again, is at the bottom.
And we've talked
about the Permian,
the Ordovician periods,
the Pleistocene period
near the top.
These spheres are
coming from a time
at the bottom of the geologic
time table before life began.
At this time, if
there was life, it
was only primitive, single
cell, maybe amoebas,
very primitive biological life.
It's called Pre-Cambrian period.
So this is the mystery.
What are these technologically
advanced, machined spheres
doing in South Africa at a
time when, not only are there
no humans, but the most
advanced forms of life
known at that time
were single cells?
Now you're getting a sense of
what Out Of Place Artifacts
are all about.
There are so many Out Of Place
Artifacts that scientists
now, again, put them into a
separate pile, and they said,
you know, these don't fit
the traditional story.
We're going to have to come
back and look at these later.
Well, later is now.
Because there are
so many anomalies,
they're saying there
must be another story,
or at the very least, the
story that we've embraced
is incomplete.
Let me be really
clear about this.
I'm not saying it's wrong.
I'm saying there's a good
chance that it's incomplete.
We have only gleaned a small
part of our true history.
So the question is, how far back
do these Out Of Place Artifacts
go?
Here's an even bigger question.
Are they confined
only to this planet?
Are they confined only to Earth?
Or is it possible
we can find Out
Of Place Artifacts in other
places, maybe like the moon?
Well, something very
interesting has happened.
In the year 2016, so
very, very recently,
NASA has just released
its entire archive
of lunar images, images
taken of the lunar surface,
from the Apollo missions,
all the way from 1961,
when they began, through 1972.
There are things on these
images that NASA cannot explain.
So they are called
anomalous images.
Some of them are so anomalous
that they have been pixelated
out so that we can't
really see what they are,
but we can still see the pixels.
So there's something
happening on the moon,
and I want you to see
some of these images,
just a couple of them.
I was an amateur archeologist
when I was in college.
And one of the things,
the very first things,
that I learned as an
archeologist is this.
When we see 90-degree angles
on an archeological site,
that tells us that it is, in
fact, an archeological site,
that it is not a
natural formation.
Nature does not erode with
wind in 90-degree angles,
or nature does not erode
through a stream or a river
in 90-degree angles.
So when you see
a 90-degree angle
like you're seeing on
your screen right now,
this is an excavated
archeological site
that we're seeing
in aerial view.
And it's very clear to see--
the red lines are showing us
where that 90-degree angle is.
The next damage
that you're seeing,
this is from the
surface of the moon.
And this is among the
images that NASA released.
You're seeing on the
lower right-hand portion
of the screen, you can see
what looks like a little cube.
And then in the upper
right-hand portion,
you're seeing what definitely
is an enlargement of that cube.
Those are definitely
90-degree angles.
They are definitely
made intentionally.
They are not the
result of erosion.
The question is, what are
they doing on the moon?
We have been led to believe
that the moon is a sterile
surface, that there is no
life existing on the moon,
nor has there ever been.
So when we begin to
see things like this--
and again, these images are
from 1961 through 1972--
what do they mean?
Well, if it was only
one image, you'd say,
maybe it's just
a trick of light,
a trick of light and shadow.
But it's not just one image.
I want you to see some
of the other images
that NASA is releasing.
The Clementine
mission to the moon
came later, after
the Apollo missions.
So Clementine was
a separate mission
that went back to
the moon, maybe
to look a little closer
at some of the anomalies
that Apollo was seeing.
It's the Clementine images
that we're finding pixilated,
although they are
released to the public.
So you're seeing one now.
There's obviously
something here in the image
that you're seeing that
for whatever reason,
we're not being allowed to see.
What could that be on
the surface of the moon?
What is the Out Of Place
Artifact that we're not seeing?
Here's another one that looks
more like some kind of a tower,
perhaps, of some kind
or an obelisk that's
been pixeled out.
These are from the
Clementine mission.
Now, when people see things
like this on the moon,
the first thing
that comes to mind
is aliens, ETs, UFOs,
things like that.
And I fully believe,
I'm certain,
that we are not alone
in this universe.
It would make no
sense for us to be.
That there's an overwhelming
body of evidence suggesting now
that other life forms have been
with us for a very long time,
both in our world
and in other worlds.
The astronauts have
talked about this, those
that have been interviewed.
But I'm going to give you
just a little bit different
perspective.
This is the year 2016.
We are living a
time of extremes.
We are living a time when
the cycles of conflict
are ramping up
through the year 2020.
You don't need me
to tell you that.
You can feel the tension in
the world, the push toward war.
Doesn't mean that
war needs to happen,
but there are multiple
places and hotspots where
you can see right
now it wouldn't
take much to create that.
OK, at the same time,
something else is happening.
During the Cold War years,
there were only two nations
that had the money
and the technology
to go to the moon, the
former USSR, former Soviet
Union, and the former
United States of America.
And I have to say that
because both nations are
so broke right now that
we're not going back
to the moon, at least in the
way that we have in the past.
But there are other nations
that are going to the moon.
During the Cold War, even
though the former Soviet Union
and former United
States of America
were at war on one level,
it was a very civilized war
in some respects,
because there were
agreements among
scientists on other levels.
One of those agreements
was that things
that were found on the
moon, for whatever reason,
were not publicly
shared among the people
of the Earth at the time.
And I'm not going to say it's
right, wrong, good, or bad.
There were research
programs that
said that certain
kinds of information
could disrupt the
fabric of society
and overturn religious beliefs.
And again, it was another world.
This was the '60s and the '70s.
But the point is those
agreements were honored,
and I think that's one
of the reasons we're not
seeing some of these images.
The nations that are now
on their way to the moon,
the nations that have the
money and the technology
and the will to return, were
not part of those agreements.
China, for example, India are
both on their way to the moon.
And both nations have said that
when they land on the moon,
they will televise to the
people of the Earth whatever
it is that they find
live as they find it.
Here's why I believe
this is important.
And this is a place
where I'm moving
beyond peer-reviewed science.
I'm sharing with
you my perspective,
my sense, my belief.
When we find those Out Of
Place Artifacts on the moon,
when we find
archeological remnants
of intentional civilization
in a place where
we used to be hoping to find
microbes-- we were looking
for life, hoping to
find microscopic life,
and now we're finding
entire temple complexes,
is what appears to
be on those images.
When we find those,
my sense is that we're
going to discover something
that could be the most powerful,
the most unifying
experienced the people
in our global family, the people
of Earth, could ever have.
Because my sense is that when
we go into those ancient sites,
we're going to find the
hieroglyphs on the walls.
We're going to find
writing in languages
that we already know in the
original languages called
root languages of the Earth--
Hebrew, Sanskrit, Cuneiform,
Arabic.
And the reason
we're finding them
there is because those
sites are not necessarily
alien ET UFO sites.
I believe there are
sites that were developed
by us from another cycle of
another civilization, when
we worked together as a
family on this planet,
when we cooperated and achieved
great and beautiful things.
And my question is, if
we were able to do things
like that in the
past, how much further
could we go if we did
the same thing right now
with what we know today?
Here's the beauty.
Here we are on the verge of war
at a time when the cycles are
converging, creating the
tension in a time of extremes,
and at exactly that time, we
may find the evidence of us
from another time that
has the power to unify us
rather than divide us.
And I think we're
going to see that
very soon in our lifetimes.
So what would that mean?
Would it mean if we found
something like that?
And when we look at the
advanced civilizations on Earth,
why did those
civilizations collapse?
What happened in the past?
Is there something that
could have happened then
that we've forgotten?
Or maybe we chose to
forget, because whatever
it was was so painful we
didn't want to carry it
into future civilizations.
I'm going to share
with you another
Out Of Place Artifact,
an ancient clue
that it is happening in
what is now Pakistan.
It is in an area that used to
be between India and Pakistan,
ancient, ancient sites,
archeological sites,
such as Mohenjo
Daro and Harappa.
And we've known about
these sites for a while.
They're about 5,000
years before present,
is when we say they originated.
Interestingly, it's the
beginning of the last cycle,
and it also happens to be at the
time of the last great climate
change.
What we're finding is evidence
of an advanced society,
an advanced society that
had things in their time
that we have in ours today.
They had knowledge
of mathematics
and chemistry, architecture,
advanced architecture,
multi-story buildings.
They had closed,
indoor plumbing,
hot and cold running
water, flush toilets,
stained glass in their windows.
They even had buried
pipelines, where
there have been wires
and remnants of cables
and what are believed to
be ancient batteries found
in these sites.
So clearly, these were
not primitive grass huts.
These were advanced
technological civilizations,
and they had more.
They had amazing
art, beautiful art,
using techniques of sculpture
that we're only beginning
to use now in the 20th century.
But there are a lot of
mysteries in these sites.
One of the mysteries is this.
When the archeologists
began to uncover the sites,
they found human skeletons.
The skeletons were
not arranged randomly.
They were toward
one end of the city
and, to quote the words of
one of the archeologists,
they were in
"postures of flight."
That means they were
running from something.
They were moving
in one direction.
Some of the
skeletons, the bodies
were holding one
another for comfort.
Some of them were families.
Some of them were individuals.
There were animals that
were some with them.
They had their pets.
But here's the thing.
Some of those skeletons have a
higher degree of radioactivity
than they should have just
from being in the ground
from background radiation.
And this has been a big
mystery to the scientists
for a long time.
You're seeing an
image on your screen,
an actual photograph
of some of the bodies
and the way they're
arranged right now.
The scientists,
archeologists also
began to find evidence of what
is called vitrified stone.
What that means is that
in the walls of the homes,
for example, or in the floors
made of quartz or granite that
is made of quartz and feldspar
and mica, some of the minerals,
while they're still
in place, they've
been exposed to a heat that
was so intense it melted
the minerals in place-- a
high, intense, rapid heat that
melted these minerals in place.
And one of the mysteries--
the archeologists
began to find these
mysterious lumps of something.
And it took them a
while to understand
that what they were looking
at were lumps of clay that
used to be clay vases and
clay dolls for children
that had also been vitrified.
They were exposed to
a rapid, intense heat.
They were melted so
quickly all that's left now
is a stone ball.
So these kinds of things
are the mysteries.
The scientists are
saying, what happened?
What could have happened
in this part of the world?
Well, this is one of
those places where we have
to look beyond the evidence.
If you look only
at the evidence,
you'll never understand
what it is that happened.
We need context.
And some of that context is
coming from the oral traditions
of this part of the world
from the Hindu traditions
of the Mahabharata,
and specifically
in the Bhagavad Gita,
which is a small portion
of the Mahabharata.
This portion of the
Mahabharata tells a story
of an ancient
battle that happened
between two advanced
civilizations a long time ago.
It doesn't give the exact dates.
And as these two civilizations
clashed, one of them
began to lose the
battle, and they
resorted to using a
weapon that had never
been used before--
a technology that
had never been used before.
And they wrote about what
the effects of this weapon
were in a way that made no
sense until the 20th century
because we had nothing
to compare it to.
I'd like to read
portions of this
to you for accuracy right now.
So the ancient Mahabharata
says specifically,
and I'm going to
read these texts.
This is a quote.
"A single projectile
charged with all the power
of the universe, an incandescent
column of smoke and flame
as bright as 1,000 suns,
rose in all its splendor,
a perpendicular explosion with
its billowing smoke clouds,
the cloud of smoke rising after
its first explosion formed
into expanding, round
circles, like the opening
of giant parasols."
It's this next piece that
I think is so telling.
This is a direct quote.
It says, "It was an unknown
weapon, an iron thunderbolt,
a gigantic messenger
of death, which
reduced to ashes the entire
race of the Vrishnis"
and the other people
who were there.
"The corpses were
so burned as to be
unrecognizable the hair and
the fingernails fell out.
Pottery broke without
apparent cause.
And the birds turned
white in the sky and fell.
After a few hours, all
foodstuffs were infected.
To escape from this
fire, the soldiers
threw themselves
into the streams
to wash themselves
and their equipment."
Where did that
description come from?
What could have been seen in
the eyes of the people living
in Mohenjo Daro 5,000
years ago to prompt them
to describe something
that made no sense
until the 20th century?
Does Mohenjo Daro offer
evidence of the unthinkable?
And this is a question
that scientists are
asking themselves right now.
The father of the nuclear
age, the atomic bomb, Robert
Oppenheimer, after
the detonation
of the first nuclear device,
he was being interviewed
at Rochester University.
And the interviewer asked
Robert Oppenheimer a question.
And it's such a
telling question.
The answer that he
gave was so unexpected.
Listen to the question,
and listen to the answer.
The student asked
Mr. Oppenheimer,
he said, how do you feel
after having exploded
the first atomic bomb on Earth?
Oppenheimer answered,
and he said, well,
not the first atomic bomb, he
said, but the first atomic bomb
in modern times.
>> We knew the world
would not be the same.
A few people laughed.
A few people cried.
Most people were silent.
I remembered the line
from the Hindu scripture,
the Bhagavad Gita,
Vishnu was trying
persuade the prince
that he should
do his duty and, to impress him,
takes on his multi-armed form
and says, "Now I
am become death,
the destroyer of worlds."
I suppose we all though
that one way or another.
>>GREGG: Interestingly,
Robert Oppenheimer
was a student of
the Mahabharata.
He was a student of
the Bhagavad Gita.
And he is famously quoted as
witnessing that first mushroom
cloud and saying
under his breath,
"I have become death,
the destroyer of worlds,"
which is a direct quote
from the Mahabharata.
So Robert Oppenheimer
firmly believed
that there had been nuclear
devices on this Earth
from advanced civilizations in
the past, and he's not alone.
Other scientists have
sensed the same thing,
because they see the
trajectory of civilization
and how the cycles ebb and flow
and where we are in the cycles
today.
Well, this is all conjecture.
But it wasn't until
Google Earth began
looking at this part of the
world from another perspective,
from satellites, that they
found what you're seeing
on your screen right now.
This is a Google Earth image.
It is obviously a crater.
The first thing
that scientists did
when they saw this
crater in the area
of these archeological
sites, they said,
well, maybe an asteroid hit
the earth a long time ago.
When they excavated through
the bottom of this crater,
they found no evidence
of any kind of impact
from an asteroid.
So the fact that
this crater exists,
the fact that we
have vitrified stone,
that we have vitrified clay
vases and toys from children,
that we have radioactive
skeletons in postures of flight
in an ancient city that
is described in the text
as being the victim of an
ancient war using a weapon that
never been used before, it
brings all of this to a focus
and says, have we
been here before?
Have we done this in the past?
Are we unconsciously
living a cycle,
where technology advances
in one particular way at one
particular time to the point
where we are given the ability
to preserve or destroy all that
we love, all that we cherish,
all that we hold dear, and are
we at that point right now?
That's the question
that we need to ask.
So we owe it to ourselves
to answer this question.
What happened?
What happened to Mohenjo
Daro so long ago?
What can we learn from
what they left behind?
Well, in our next
episode, we're going
to take this exploration
beyond the temples
and the walls of advanced
civilizations from the past.
We're going to discover
the single truth that
has been so fundamental to
every ancient technological and
indigenous civilization
in the past.
It's a deep truth that a
new discovery is forcing
modern science now to embrace.
Thank you for joining me
for this program today,
and be sure to tune
in for our next
all new episode,
"Missing Links,"
the deep truth of our origin,
history, destiny, and fate.
[THEME MUSIC]